In this lecture, will create the user
admin service project with three classes
in it, that is the ID generator which
generates a unique ID and then the user
DAO which uses the ID generator class
and a simple user beam that is a DTO
class will be testing the user DAO
using j unit and powermock in the lectures
later on so to create the project launch
the Eclipse IDE go to the file menu say
new Java project give it a name user
admin service hit enter the first step
as always is to right click on the
project say new create a source folder
call it test it finish is where all our
j unit and power mock test will go later
on to create our first ID generator
class right click on the SRC package of
the SRC folder say new class ID
generator give it a package name
com.bharath.useradmin.util I want to
store this ID generator in a util package because
it is a utility hit finish, now I want
to make this class final because I want
everybody to use the same ID generator I
don't want anybody to extend this class
and come up with their own
implementations by overriding the
generate ID method so in here I will
declare a static int I or I can yeah
this I will be incremented and it will
be returned back as a ID public static
final int generate ID is the method and
this method simply increments the global
I every time and it returns it back not
has complex generate ID implementation
here for the sake of this demo we are
done with the ID generator and it's
static method now we'll create the Diego
class right click on the SRC package a
new class instead of ID generator
user DAO and the package name change
it from util to DAO click finish
the DAO class has only one method public
int create user object it takes the user
object as the parameter and it saves it
to the database this is where we loose
the power of a eclipse hit ctrl one on the
user object which doesn't exist create
class user let's put it into a different
package DTO instead of DAO change it
to DTO click finish we have the user class
created int ID that is the only field we
need on this control one create getters
and setters for this to go back to the
DAO now we have the user class hit
control one add a return statement
instead of returning zero what we will
do is we will use the ID generator call
the static method on it which is
generate ID assign it to a local
variable let's call it ID and in here
usually all the database saving code
we'll go save the user object to the DB
will use the generated ID and save the
user object to the database and then we
will return back the generated ID but we
are not going to do that we are going to
keep it as is and we are done with our
project creation so we have created a ID
generator which is final and it uses a
static method and then we have created a
DAO which uses this ID generator in the
next lecture we'll be testing this user
DAO by mocking out the static method
on this final class.